-------Processes_and_Signals---------
In this project I learned about handling process ID's and signals in Bash with ps, pgrep, pkill, exit and trap.

1).PID- (Process Identification Number)
This is an identification number that is automatically assigned to each process created in a unix-like operating system.

A process is an executing instance of a program and is tagged with a unique PID that is non-negative integer.

The process init is the only process that always have the same PID on any session and on any system. Has a PID of 1 since it is the first process in the system.

The default max value of PIDs is 32,767. this signifies the max number of processes that can occur simultaneoulsy on a system.

the file pid_max specifies the value at which PIDs wrap around.

**ps-(Process Status) or pstree** command shows the process names and PIDs in a tree diagram.

**top** command tracks running processes.
**ps** displays currently running processses.

**pidof** command provides the PID of a prgram whose name is passed to an argument.

**kill** command ends aprogram that cannot be stopped by rebooting the system.

Information on current processes are stored in the proc filesystem. This file system consists kernel data that changes in real time.

2). Signals
A signal is an event generated by unix systems in response to some condition.Upon receipt of a signal a process takes action.

Types of signals:
	Maskable :- signals that can be changed or ignored by the user.
	Non-Maskable :- cannot be changed by the user.

3). Changing priority of a process.
The priority value of a process is called the niceness value.
**nice -n [value] [process name]** starts a process and gie it a nice value

**renice [value] -p 'PID'** changes the nice value of a process that is already running.

0. What is my PID?

