/********Loops_Conditions_Parsing***********/

---Objectives---
How to create SSH keys
	- Secure Shell is used to establish a secure connection between a client and a server.
	- SSH key generation is generated in 2 steps: 1. SSH is created on the client side, 2. the ssh is copied to the server or any remote host.
	- Key pai consists of Private and Public key files.
	- An SSH key can be generated by running the “ssh-keygen” command in the terminal.
What is the advantage of using #!/usr/bin/env bash over #!/bin/bash?
	- Since the bash or Perl is not always in the same location.The env command is used to make the script more portable.
How to use while, until and for loops
How to use if, else, elif and case condition statements
How to use the cut command
What are files and other comparison operators, and how to use them

1. The For loop
*For* - is a looping command that allows for specification of a list of values.A list of commands is executed for each values in the list.

Syntax:
	for NAME [in LIST ]; do COMMANDS; done

The return status is the exit status of the last command that executes.
NAME can be any variable name
The commands to be executed can be operating system commands, scripts, program/shell statements.

2. Variable assesment and arithmetic
Variable assignment involves initializing or changing the value of a variable.
(=) is used as the assignment operator and works for both string and arithmetic assigments.

3. Comparison opearators.
A binary comparison operator compares two variables or quantities,

___integer comparison___
-eq is equal to: if [ "$a" -eq "$b"]
-ne is not equal to: if ["$a" -ne "$b"]
-gt is greater than: if ["$a" -gt "$b"]
-ge is greater than or equal to: if ["$a" -ge "$b"]
-lt is less than: if ["$a" -lt "$b"]
-le is less than or equal to: if [ "$a" -le "$b" ]
< is less than: (("$a" < "$b"))
<= is less than or equal to : (("$a" <= "$b"))
> is greater than: (("$a" > "$b"))
>= is greater than or equal to: (("$a" >= "$b"))

___string comparison___
= is equal to: if [ "$a" = "$b" ]
== is equal to(compares):if [ "$a" == "$b" ]
!= is not equal to: if [ "$a" != "$b" ]
< is less than, in ASCII alphabetical order: if [[ "$a" < "$b" ]]
> is greater than, in ASCII alphabetical order:if [[ "$a" > "$b" ]]
-z string is null: 
		if [ -z "$String" ]
	then
	 echo "\$String is null."
	else
	 echo "\$String is NOT null."
	fi     # $String is null.
-n string is not null

4. File Test Operators
-e file exists
-a file exists :- It has been "deprecated," and its use is discouraged.
-f file is a regular file
-s file is not zero size
-d file is a directory
-b file is a block device
-c file is a chracter device
-p file is a pipe
-h file is a symbolic link
-L file is a symbolic link
-S file is a socket
-t file descriptor is associated with a terminal device.
-r file has read permission
-w file has write permission
-x file has execute permision
-g set-group-id flag set on file or directory
-u set-user-id (suid) flag set on file
-k sticky bit set

5. Make scripts Portable
#!/usr/bin/env As a Shebang

The #! is a shebang- indicate an interpreter for execution under UNIX / Linux operating systems.
The interpreter is the full path to a binary file. For example: /bin/bash.
However, BAsh or Perl is not always in the same location.`/usr/bin/env` command is used to make the script more portable.
eg. #!/usr/bin/env python3 ,  #!/usr/bin/env bash
The env-mechanism is hugely enhancing convenience, and almost all Unix like systems today provide /usr/bin/env

